<h1 align="center">Twitch Classifier Report</h1>
<h3 align="center">By Shakir Rahman</h3>
<p align="center"><em>shaksafehaven@gmail.com</em></p>

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**1. Introduction.** The following report aims to analyze the observable differences between individuals in different Twitch chats. Utilising message data from the five of: rdcgaming, rdcgamingtwo, rdcgamingthree, rdcgamingfour, and rdcgamingfive, we will commence with an exploratory data analysis(EDA). This EDA will explore the underlying relationships we wish to capture through sentiment analysis, followed by the identification of significant features, correlations, and preparing the dataset for modelling. Afterwards, we will develop several different models in order to predict the origin of concatenated chat messages and select the best performing model in terms of its performance on future data.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**2. Data.**<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;***2.1. Twitch Overview.*** Before we dive into our data collection methods we must provide a quick overview of Twitch as a whole. Essentially, Twitch is a live streaming platform where creators can broadcast their content to viewers across the globe. While primarily for gaming, Twitch as a platform hosts creators in a variety of categories and allows for viewers to interact with the creator through the creator's channel in real time via Twitch's chat service. <br>

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;***2.2. Data Collection.*** Our analysis involves collecting message data from the creators at RDC. The group consists of many members but the five individuals we will focus on in our analysis are Mark, Desmond, Dylan, Leland, and Ben. These five members typically play games together on Twitch and livestream their gameplay through the channels RDCGaming, RDCGamingTwo, RDCGamingThree, RDCGamingFour, and RDCGamingFive. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In terms of the chat messages collected, it's fairly rudimentary. Any message in these five chats, sent by a real person(not a robot), that doesn't include any links or commands will be collected. For each message, the following is recorded: the username of the sender, the message content itself, the Twitch channel the message originates from (which is then mapped to the individual streaming at the time. Ie. If Desmond is streaming on RDCGamingTwo, the message would belong to Desmond's chat), and finally the date the message was sent. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There is a caveat to the above, being that message data is only collected when at least one of RDCGamingTwo, Three, Four, or Five are live alongside RDCGaming. The purpose behind this is derived from the fact that the RDCGaming channel often streams solo content unrelated to gaming. During these solo streams, the entire group is typically together in the same group call on the single channel. Consequently, it is infeasible to attribute a message in chat to any member, and the tone in the chat is representative of the collective dynamic of the different communities rather than highlighting each communities' individual quirks. On the other hand, when RDC play games together on stream, the secondary channels go live where each member streams their own point of view within the game. This method allows us to obtain data that reflects the behaviour of each community for the purpose of comparison and model generation. <br>

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;***2.3. Data Preprocessing.*** Our dataset includes chat messages from the period of May 14th to May 28th 2025. Given the course of the eight streams over this time period, we have obtained about 250K individual messages between the five twitch channels. Before the data can be fit for modelling we need to preprocess it so that we have clear observations and features that a model can learn from. We begin by shuffling the original message data observations in order to have two files `messages.csv` and `messages_shuffled.csv`. We further filter out all messages from the aforementioned files that mention the names: Ben, Mark, Dylan, Desmond, and Leland, to create `messages_filtered.csv` and `messages_shuffled_filtered.csv`. The purpose for these four unique files are to be explored following the explanation of our preprocessing steps.

We loop through each Twitch channel `channel` and define a variable `observation` as an empty string. We then loop through each message `msg` sent in `channel` and perform `observation += f"{msg}. "`. This continues for each subsequent message until `observation` is a string of at least `X`(where `X` is one of 500, 1000, and 1500) characters. Once this condition has been met, we find the counts of each pairwise alphabetical character within `observation`, that is, we find the number of times `aa`, `ab`, `ac`, ..., `az`, ..., `zz` is present within `observation`. Finally, we write the details of this observation to a csv file with all 676 pairwise letter combinations as their own separate column, a column that stores the concatenated messages `observation` and finally the Twitch channel these messages originate from. Following the recording of this observation, we reset `observation` back to an empty string and repeat the process until all messages sent in `channel` have been processed. 

The above leaves us with a total of twelve files, six for unfiltered data and another six for filtered data, stored in `rdc/data/regular` and `rdc/data/filtered` respectively. 

We decided to shuffle the raw `messages.csv` observations earlier because messages are inherently temporal data. Consecutive messages are not only reflective of the Twitch channel they originate from, but the specific moment or 'vibe' at the time they were sent. The worry is that the observations obtained above from just `messages.csv` will be littered with temporal influence and not be truly reflective of the channel's linguistic style. Hence we decided to work with both shuffled and unshuffled data so that we can understand the effect they have on our predictions. 

Furthermore, we want to utilise our models to gain an understanding of the pairwise combinations that are most pertinent in identifying a Twitch channel from a set of messages. As such, we created filtered versions of the datasets that removes all direct mentions of the streamer's name. Including these names will likely dominate the signal in our observations and result in models learning superficial identifiers as opposed to the actual linguistic distinctions that we desire. Similarly to the above, by having these distinct files we can examine the effect of training a model with the inclusion of streamer references and without.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;***2.4. Exploratory Data Analysis.*** Given the above datasets, we now conduct an exploratory data analysis to understand any underlying patterns in our data, and make some final modifications so that we are ready for modelling.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;****2.4.1. Output.**** <br> Our response variable consists of 11253, 5643, and 3766 observations at the 500, 1000, and 1500 character level respectively. We do not bother with histograms as message data is erratic and won't follow any specific distributions, this also applies for outlier capping/removal alongside boxplots, which we do not bother with as it is natural for us to believe that outliers are representative of linguistic patterns and that capping or removing them will erase meaningful data.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;****2.4.2. Features.**** <br>

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;***2.5. Suspected Patterns.*** Given the above, it is natural to believe that the different communities surrounding each member would produce different patterns in the way they speak in chat. We wish to verify this through sentiment analysis. Aside from our conclusions regarding the sentiment analysis, we believe that the non shuffled data will have higher accuracy compared to the shuffled data due to overfitting regarding the temporal nature of the messages.<br>



&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**3. Methodology.**

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**4. Results.**
